ADHKAR DU COUCHER :

1.Surah al-Sajdah & Surah al-Mulk
Texte en arabe: (الٓمٓ تَنْزِيْلُ… (سورة السجدة) & تَبَارَكَ الَّذِيْ… (سورة الملك

Traduction en anglais: 

Translitération:

Source:The Messenger of Allah ﷺ would not sleep until he had recited [the above two Sūrahs]. (Tirmidhī 3404)

The Messenger of Allah ﷺ said: “A Sūrah from the Qur’ān containing 30 verses will intercede for a man until he is forgiven. It is Sūrah al-Mulk.” (Tirmidhī 2891)

‘Abdullāh ibn Mas‘ūd (raḍiy Allāhu ‘anhu) narrated that whoever reads Sūrah al-Mulk every night, Allah will protect him from the punishment of the grave. He said: “At the time of the Messenger of Allah ﷺ, we used to call it ‘al-māni‘ah’ (the protector). Indeed there is a Sūrah in the Book of Allah [i.e. this Sūrah]; whoever recites it every night has done very well.” (Nasā’ī in ‘Amal al-Yawm wal-Laylah 711)

Répétition:1X



2.Ayat al-Kursi: Exclusive Protection
Texte en arabe: أَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰهِ مِنَ الشَّيْطَانِ الرَّجِيْمِ. اَللّٰهُ لَآ إِلٰهَ إِلَّا هُوَ الْحَىُّ الْقَيُّومُ ، لَا تَأْخُذُهُۥ سِنَةٌ وَّلَا نَوْمٌ ، لَهُ مَا فِى السَّمٰـوٰتِ وَمَا فِى الْأَرْضِ ، مَنْ ذَا الَّذِىْ يَشْفَعُ عِندَهُٓ إِلَّا بِإِذْنِهِۦ ، يَعْلَمُ مَا بَيْنَ أَيْدِيْهِمْ وَمَا خَلْفَهُمْ ، وَلَا يُحِيْطُوْنَ بِشَىْءٍ مِّنْ عِلْمِهِٓ إِلَّا بِمَا شَآءَ ، وَسِعَ كُرْسِيُّهُ السَّمٰـوٰتِ وَالْأَرْضَ، وَلَا يَئُوْدُهُۥ حِفْظُهُمَا ، وَهُوَ الْعَلِىُّ الْعَظِيْمُ.

Traduction en anglais: I seek the protection of Allah from the accursed Shayṭān. Allah, there is no god worthy of worship but He, the Ever Living, The Sustainer of all. Neither drowsiness overtakes Him nor sleep. To Him Alone belongs whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth. Who is it that can intercede with Him except with His permission? He knows what is before them and what will be after them, and they encompass not a thing of His knowledge except for what He wills. His Kursī extends over the heavens and the earth, and their preservation does not tire Him. And He is the Most High, the Magnificent. (2:255)

Translitération:Aʿūdhu bi-llāhi mina-sh-Shayṭāni-r-rajīm. Allāhu lā ilāha illā Huwa-l-Ḥayyu-l-Qayyūm, lā ta’khudhuhū sinatuw-wa lā nawm, lahū mā fi-s-samāwāti wa mā fi-l-arḍ, man dhā’lladhī yashfaʿu ʿindahū illā bi-idhnih, yaʿlamu mā bayna aydīhim wa mā khalfahum, wa lā yuḥīṭūna bi-shay’im-min ʿilmihī illā bi-mā shā’, wasiʿa kursiyyuhu-s-samāwāti wa-l-arḍ, wa lā ya’ūduhū ḥifẓuhumā wa Huwa-l-ʿAlliyu-l-ʿAẓīm.

Source:Abū Hurayrah (raḍiy Allāhu ‘anhu) reports: “The Messenger of Allah ﷺ put me in charge of watching over the donations of food collected at the end of Ramadhān. Then someone came and snatched some food, and I grabbed him. He said: ‘Let me go. I shall do it no more…’”

And he went on to recount the hadīth, saying: “The third time he said to me: ‘I shall teach you some words by which Allah will benefit you. When you lie down in your bed, recite Āyah al-Kursī from beginning to end; a guardian angel will stay by you and no devil will approach you, until you wake up in the morning.’ I tried his method, and when I awoke in the morning,

I told the Messenger of Allah ﷺ what he had said, and he ﷺ said to me: ‘Even though he is a liar, he spoke the truth. Do you know who you were talking to Abū Hurayrah?’ I said: ‘No.’ He ﷺ said: ‘That was Shaytān.’” (Bukhārī 2311)

Répétition:1X



3.Last Two Ayahs of Surah al-Baqarah: Will Suffice You
Texte en arabe: أَعُوْذُ بِاللّٰهِ مِنَ الشَّيْطَانِ الرَّجِيْمِ. اٰمَنَ الرَّسُوْلُ بِمَآ أُنْزِلَ إِلَيْهِ مِنْ رَّبِّهِ وَالْمُؤْمِنُوْنَ ، كُلٌّ اٰمَنَ بِاللّٰهِ وَمَلآئِكَتِهِ وَكُتُبِهِ وَرُسُلِهِ ، لَا نُفَرِّقُ بَيْنَ أَحَدٍ مِّنْ رُّسُلِهِ ، وَقَالُوْا سَمِعْنَا وَأَطَعْنَا غُفْرَانَكَ رَبَّنَا وَإِلَيْكَ الْمَصِيْرُ. لَا يُكَلِّفُ اللّٰهُ نَفْسًا إِلَّا وُسْعَهَا ، لَهَا مَا كَسَبَتْ وَعَلَيْهَا مَا اكْتَسَبَتْ ، رَبَّنَا لَا تُؤَاخِذْنَآ إِنْ نَّسِينَآ أَوْ أَخْطَأْنَا ، رَبَّنَا وَلَا تَحْمِلْ عَلَيْنَآ إِصْرًا كَمَا حَمَلْتَهُ عَلَى الَّذِيْنَ مِنْ قَبْلِنَا ، رَبَّنَا وَلَا تُحَمِّلْنَا مَا لَا طَاقَةَ لَنَا بِهِ ، وَاعْفُ عَنَّا وَاغْفِرْ لَنَا وَارْحَمْنَا ، أَنْتَ مَوْلَانَا فَانْصُرْنَا عَلَى الْقَوْمِ الْكٰـفِرِيْنَ.

Traduction en anglais: I seek the protection of Allah from the accursed Shayṭān. The Messenger has believed in what was revealed to him from his Lord, and [so have] the believers. All of them have believed in Allah, His angels, His books and His messengers, [saying], “We make no distinction between any of His Messengers.” And they say, “We hear and we obey. We seek Your forgiveness, our Lord, and to You is the final destination.” Allah does not charge a soul except [with that within] its capacity. It will have [the consequence of] what [good] it has gained, and it will bear [the consequence of] what [evil] it has earned. “Our Lord, do not impose blame upon us if we have forgotten or erred. Our Lord, and lay not upon us a burden like that which You laid upon those before us. Our Lord, and burden us not with that which we have no ability to bear. And pardon us; and forgive us; and have mercy upon us. You are our protector, so give us victory over the disbelieving people.” (2:285-6)

Translitération:Aʿūdhu bi-llāhi mina-sh-Shayṭāni-r-rajīm. Āmana-r-rasūlu bimā unzila ilayhi mi-r-rabbihī wa-l-mu’minūn, kullun āmana bi-l-llāhi wa malā’ikatihī wa kutubihī wa rusulih, lā nufarriqu bayna aḥadim-mi-r-rusulih, wa qālū samiʿnā wa aṭaʿnā ghufrānaka Rabbanā wa ilayka-l-maṣīr. Lā yukallifu-l-llāhu nafsan illā wusʿahā, lahā mā kasabat wa ʿalayhā ma-ktasabat, Rabbanā lā tuākhidhnā i-n-nasīnā aw akhṭa’nā, Rabbanā walā taḥmil ʿalaynā iṣran kamā ḥamaltahū ʿala-l-ladhīna min qablinā, Rabbanā wa lā tuḥammilnā mā lā ṭāqata lanā bih, waʿfu ʿannā wa-ghfir lanā war-ḥamnā, Anta Mawlānā fan-ṣurnā ʿala-l-qawmi-l-kāfirīn.

Source:The Messenger of Allah ﷺ said: “Whoever recites the last two verses of Sūrah al-Baqarah at night, they will suffice him.” (Bukhārī 4008, 807)

Répétition:1X



4.Surah al-Kafirun: Negation of Shirk
Texte en arabe: بِسْمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّحِيْمِ. قُلْ يَـٰٓأَيُّهَا الْكَافِرُوْنَ ، لَآ أَعْبُدُ مَا تَعْبُدُوْنَ ، وَلَآ أَنْتُمْ عَابِدُوْنَ مَآ أَعْبُدُ ، وَلَآ أَنَا عَابِدٌ مَّا عَبَدْتُّمْ ، وَلَآ أَنْتُم عَابِدُوْنَ مَآ أَعْبُدُ ، لَكُمْ دِيْنُكُمْ وَلِيَ دِيْنِ.

Traduction en anglais: In the name of Allah,the All-Merciful, the Very Merciful. Say: O disbelievers, I worship not that which you worship. And nor do you worship that which I worship. And I shall not worship that which you worship. Nor will you worship that which I worship. To you be your religion, and to me my religion. (109)

Translitération:Bismi-llāhi-r-Raḥmāni-r-Raḥīm. Qul yā ayyuha-l-kāfirūn, lā aʿbudu mā taʿbudūn, wa lā antum ʿābidūna mā aʿbud, wa lā ana ʿābidūm-mā ʿabat-tum, wa lā antum ʿābidūna mā aʿbud, lakum dīnukum waliya dīn.

Source:The Messenger of Allah ﷺ said: “Recite [the above] then go to sleep at the end of it, for it is a disavowal of polytheism.” (Tirmidhī 3403)

Répétition:1X



5.The Three Quls/Muʿawwidhat
Texte en arabe: بِسْمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّحِيْمِ. قُلْ هُوَ اللّٰهُ أَحَدٌ ، اَللّٰهُ الصَّمَدُ ، لَمْ يَلِدْ وَلَمْ يُوْلَدْ ، وَلَمْ يَكُنْ لَّهُ كُفُوًا أَحَدٌ.

بِسْمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّحِيْمِ. قُلْ أَعُوْذُ بِرَبِّ الْفَلَقِ ، مِنْ شَرِّ مَا خَلَقَ ، وَمِنْ شَرِّ غَاسِقٍ إِذَا وَقَبَ ، وَمِنْ شَرِّ النَّفَّاثَاتِ فِي الْعُقَدِ ، وَمِنْ شَرِّ حَاسِدٍ إِذَا حَسَدَ.

بِسْمِ اللّٰهِ الرَّحْمٰنِ الرَّحِيْمِ. قُلْ أَعُوْذُ بِرَبِّ النَّاسِ ، مَلِكِ النَّاسِ ، إِلٰهِ النَّاسِ ، مِنْ شَرِّ الْوَسْوَاسِ الْخَنَّاسِ ، اَلَّذِيْ يُوَسْوِسُ فِيْ صُدُوْرِ النَّاسِ ، مِنَ الْجِنَّةِ وَالنَّاسِ.

Traduction en anglais: In the name of Allah, the All-Merciful, the Very Merciful. Say, He is Allah, the One, the Self-Sufficient Master, Who has not given birth and was not born, and to Whom no one is equal. (112)

 In the name of Allah, the All-Merciful, the Very Merciful. Say, I seek protection of the Lord of the daybreak, from the evil of what He has created, and from the evil of the darkening night when it settles, and from the evil of the blowers in knots, and from the evil of the envier when he envies. (113)

 In the name of Allah, the All-Merciful, the Very Merciful. Say, I seek protection of the Lord of mankind, the King of mankind, the God of mankind, from the evil of the whisperer who withdraws, who whispers in the hearts of mankind, whether they be Jinn or people. (114)

Translitération:Bismi-llāhi-r-Raḥmāni-r-Raḥīm. Qul Huwa-llāhu Aḥad. Allāhu-ṣ-Ṣamad. Lam yalid wa lam yūlad. Wa lam yakul-lahū kufuwan aḥad. 

Bismi-llāhi-r-Raḥmāni-r-Raḥīm. Qul aʿūdhu bi Rabbi-l-falaq. Min sharri mā khalaq. Wa min sharri ghāsiqin idhā waqab. Wa min sharri-n-naffāthāti fi-l-ʿuqad. Wa min sharri ḥāsidin idhā ḥasad. 

Bismi-llāhi-r-Raḥmāni-r-Raḥīm. Qul aʿūdhu bi rabbi-n-nās. Maliki-n-nās. Ilāh-hin-nās. Min sharri-l-waswāsi-l-khannās. Al-ladhī yuwaswisu fī ṣudūri-n-nās. Mina-l-jinnati wa-n-nās.

Source:‘Ā’ishah (raḍiy Allāhu ‘anhā) narrated that when the Messenger of Allah ﷺ retired to bed every night, he would hold his hands together and then blow into them. He would recite [the above Sūrahs] into them. Then he would wipe them over whatever he could of his body, starting with his head and face and the front of his body, and he would do that three times. (Bukhārī 5017)

Répétition:3X



6.Tasbih
Texte en arabe: سُبْحَانَ اللّٰهِ

Traduction en anglais: Allah is free from imperfection

Translitération:Subḥāna-llāh

Source:ʿAmr b. Shuʿayb narrates from his father who narrates from his grandfather that the Messenger of Allah ﷺ said: “He who says ‘Subḥānallāh’ 100 times before sunrise and 100 times before sunset, it will be better than 100 camels. He who says ‘Alḥamdullilāh’ 100 times before sunrise and 100 times before sunset, it will be better than 100 horses on which he sends 100 warriors. He who says ‘Allāhu Akbar’ 100 times before sunrise and 100 times before sunset, it will be better than freeing 100 slaves.” (Nasā’ī: al-Sunan al-Kubrā 10657)

Répétition:100x



7.Tahmid 
Texte en arabe: اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰهِ

Traduction en anglais:  All praise be to Allah

Translitération:Alḥamdu li-llāh

Source:ʿAmr b. Shuʿayb narrates from his father who narrates from his grandfather that the Messenger of Allah ﷺ said: “He who says ‘Subḥānallāh’ 100 times before sunrise and 100 times before sunset, it will be better than 100 camels. He who says ‘Alḥamdullilāh’ 100 times before sunrise and 100 times before sunset, it will be better than 100 horses on which he sends 100 warriors. He who says ‘Allāhu Akbar’ 100 times before sunrise and 100 times before sunset, it will be better than freeing 100 slaves.” (Nasā’ī: al-Sunan al-Kubrā 10657)

Répétition:100x



8.Takbir
Texte en arabe: اَللّٰهُ أَكْبَرُ

Traduction en anglais:  Allah is the Greatest

Translitération:Allah is the Greatest

Source:ʿAmr b. Shuʿayb narrates from his father who narrates from his grandfather that the Messenger of Allah ﷺ said: “He who says ‘Subḥānallāh’ 100 times before sunrise and 100 times before sunset, it will be better than 100 camels. He who says ‘Alḥamdullilāh’ 100 times before sunrise and 100 times before sunset, it will be better than 100 horses on which he sends 100 warriors. He who says ‘Allāhu Akbar’ 100 times before sunrise and 100 times before sunset, it will be better than freeing 100 slaves.” (Nasā’ī: al-Sunan al-Kubrā 10657)

Répétition:100x



9.Mercy & Protection
Texte en arabe: بِاسْمِكَ رَبِّيْ وَضَعْتُ جَنْبِيْ ، وَبِكَ أَرْفَعُهُ ، إِنْ أَمْسَكْتَ نَفْسِيْ فَارْحَمْهَا ، وَإِنْ أَرْسَلْتَهَا فَاحْفَظْهَا بِمَا تَحْفَظُ بِهِ عِبَادَكَ الصَّالِحِيْنَ.

Traduction en anglais: In Your Name my Lord, I lie down, and in Your Name, I rise. If You take my soul away then have mercy upon it, and if You return my soul then protect it with what you protect Your righteous servants with.


Translitération:Bismika Rabbī waḍaʿtu jambī, wa bika arfaʿuh, in amsakta nafsī fa-r-ḥamhā, wa in arsaltahā, fa-ḥ-faẓhā bimā taḥfaẓu bihī ʿibādaka-s-sāliḥīn.


Source:Abū Hurayra (raḍiy Allāhu ‘anhu) narrates that the Prophet ﷺ said: “When any of you goes to bed, he should shake out his bed with the inside of his waist sheet, for he does not know what has come on to it after him, and then he should say: [the above].” (Bukhārī 6320)


Répétition:1X



10.Protection From Punishment

Texte en arabe: اَللّٰهُمَّ قِنِيْ عَذَابَكَ يَوْمَ تَبْعَثُ عِبَادَكَ.

Traduction en anglais: O Allah, protect me from Your punishment on the day You resurrect Your servants.

Translitération:Allāhumma qinī ʿadhābaka yawma tabʿathu ʿibādak.

Source:Hafsah (raḍiy Allāhu ‘anhā), the wife of the Messenger of Allah ﷺ narrates that when the Messenger of Allah ﷺ wanted to go to sleep, he put his right hand under his cheek and would then say [the above] three times. (Abū Dāwūd 5045)

Répétition:3X



11.Thank Allah for Blessing You
Texte en arabe: اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰهِ الَّذِيْ أَطْعَمَنَا وَسَقَانَا ، وَكَفَانَا ، وَآوَانَا ، فَكَمْ مِّمَّنْ لَا كَافِيَ لَهُ وَلَا مُؤْوِيَ.

Traduction en anglais: All praise is for Allah, Who provided us food and drink and Who sufficed us and has sheltered us; for how many have none to suffice them or shelter them.

Translitération:Al-ḥamdu li-llāhi-l-ladhī aṭʿamanā wa saqānā, wa kafānā, wa āwānā, fakam-mim-man lā kāfīya lahū walā mu’wiy.

Source:Anas (raḍiy Allāhu ‘anhu) narrates that when the Messenger of Allah ﷺ would retire to bed, he would say [the above]. (Muslim 2715)

Répétition:1X



12.Protect Yourself From the 4 Evils
Texte en arabe: اَللّٰهُمَّ فَاطِرَ السَّمٰوَاتِ وَالْأَرْضِ ، عَالِمَ الْغَيْبِ وَالشَّهَادَةِ ، رَبَّ كُلِّ شَيْءٍ وَّمَلِيْكَهُ ، أَشْهَدُ أَنْ لَّا إِلٰهَ إِلَّا أَنْتَ ، أَعُوْذُ بِكَ مِنْ شَرِّ نَفْسِيْ ، وَمِنْ شَرِّ الشَّيْطَانِ وَشِرْكِهِ ، وَأَنْ أَقْتَرِفَ عَلَىٰ نَفْسِيْ سُوْءًا أَوْ أَجُرَّهُ إِلَىٰ مُسْلِمٍ.

Traduction en anglais: O Allah, Creator of the heavens and the earth, Knower of the unseen and the seen, the Lord and Sovereign of everything; I bear witness that there is no god worthy of worship but You. I seek Your protection from the evil of my own self, from the evil of Shayṭān and from the evil of polytheism to which he calls, [and from inflicting evil on myself, or bringing it upon a Muslim*].

Translitération:Allāhumma fāṭir-as-samāwāti wa-l-arḍ, ʿālima-l-ghaybi wa-sh-shahādah, rabba kulli shay’iw-wa malīkah, ash-hadu al-lā ilāha illā Ant, aʿūdhu bika min sharri nafsī wa min sharri-sh-shayṭāni wa shirkihī wa an aqtarifa ʿalā nafsī sū’an aw ajurrahū ilā muslim.

Source:Abū Hurayrah (raḍiy Allāhu ‘anhu) narrates: “Abū Bakr (raḍiy Allāhu ‘anhu) said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, command me with something that I may say in the morning and evening.’ He ﷺ said: ‘Say: [the above].’ He said: ‘Say it in the morning, and evening, and when you retire to bed.’” (Tirmidhī 3392, 3529, Musnad Aḥmad 82)

Répétition:1X



13.Protection from Evil and Settling of Debts
Texte en arabe: اَللّٰهُمَّ رَبَّ السَّمٰوَاتِ وَرَبَّ الأَرْضِ وَرَبَّ الْعَرْشِ الْعَظِيْمِ ، رَبَّنَا وَرَبَّ كُلِّ شَيْءٍ ، فَالِقَ الْحَبِّ وَالنَّوَىٰ ، وَمُنْزِلَ التَّوْرَاةِ وَالْإِنْجِيْلِ وَالْفُرْقَانِ ، أَعُوْذُ بِكَ مِنْ شَرِّ كُلِّ شَيْءٍ أَنْتَ آخِذٌ بِنَاصِيَتِهِ ، اَللّٰهُمَّ أَنْتَ الْأَوَّلُ فَلَيْسَ قَبْلَكَ شَيْءٌ ، وَأَنْتَ الْآخِرُ فَلَيْسَ بَعْدَكَ شَيْءٌ ، وَأَنْتَ الظَّاهِرُ فَلَيْسَ فَوْقَكَ شَيْءٌ ، وَأَنْتَ الْبَاطِنُ فَلَيْسَ دُوْنَكَ شَيْءٌ ، اِقْضِ عَنَّا الدَّيْنَ وَأَغْنِنَا مِنَ الْفَقْرِ.

Traduction en anglais: O Allah, Lord of the heavens, Lord of the Magnificent Throne, our Lord and Lord of all things, Splitter of the seed and the date stone, Revealer of the Torah, the Injīl and the Criterion (Qur’ān); I seek Your protection from the evil of every thing You hold by the forehead. You are the First and there is nothing before You. You are the Last and there is nothing after You. You are the Most High and there is nothing above You. You are the Most Near and nothing is closer than You; settle our debts for us and spare us from poverty.

Translitération:Allāhumma Rabb-as-samāwāti wa Rabba-l-arḍi wa Rabba-l-ʿArshi-l-ʿaẓīm, Rabbanā wa Rabba kulli shay’, fāliqa-l-ḥabbi wa-n-nawā, wa munzila-t-tawrāti wa-l-injīli wa-l-furqān, aʿūdhu bika min sharri kulli shay’in Anta ākhidhun bi-nāṣiyatih, Allāhumma Anta-l-Awwalu fa-laysa qablaka shay’, wa Anta-l-Ākhiru fa-laysa baʿdaka shay’, wa Anta-ẓ- Ẓāhiru fa-laysa fawqaka shay’, wa Anta-l-Bāṭinu fa-laysa dūnaka shay’, iqḍi ʿanna-d-dayna wa aghninā mina-l-faqr.

Source:Suhayl (raḥimahullāh) reported that Abū Ṣālih (raḥimahullāh) used to command us: “When any one of you intends to go to sleep, he should lie on the bed on his right side and then say [the above]. Abū Sālih used to narrate it from Abū Hurayrah (raḍiy Allāhu ‘anhu) who narrated it from Messenger of Allah ﷺ. (Muslim 2713)

Répétition:1X



14.Ask Allah to Protect You From Evil
Texte en arabe: اَللّٰهُمَّ إِنِّيْ أَعُوْذُ بِوَجْهِكَ الْكَرِيْمِ ، وَكَلِمَاتِكَ التَّامَّةِ مِنْ شَرِّ مَا أَنْتَ آخِذٌ بِنَاصِيَتِهِ ، اَللّٰهُمَّ أَنْتَ تَكْشِفُ الْمَغْرَمَ وَالْمَأْثَمَ ، اَللّٰهُمَّ لَا يُهْزَمُ جُنْدُكَ ، وَلَا يُخْلَفُ وَعْدُكَ ، وَلَا يَنْفَعُ ذَا الْجَدِّ مِنْكَ الْجَدُّ ، سُبْحَانَكَ وَبِحَمْدِكَ.

Traduction en anglais: O Allah, I seek protection by Your Noble Countenance and by Your perfect words from the evil of all that You hold by the forehead. O Allah, it is You who removes debt and sin. O Allah, Your army is never defeated and Your promise is never broken. The wealth of the wealthy does not avail them against You. You are free from imperfection, and to You belongs all praise.

Translitération:Allāhumma innī aʿūdhu bi wajhika-l-karīm, wa kalimātika-t-tāmmati min sharri mā Anta ākhidhun bi nāṣiyatih, Allāhumma Anta takshifu-l-maghrama wa-l-ma’tham, Allāhumma lā yuhzamu junduk, wa lā yukhlafu waʿduk, wa lā yanfaʿu dha-l-jaddi minka-l-jadd, subḥānaka wa bi-ḥamdik.

Source:ʿAlī b. Abī Tālib (raḍiy Allāhu ‘anhu) narrates that the Messenger of Allah used to say [the above] when he retired to bed. (Abū Dāwūd 5052)

Répétition:1X



15.Protection, Well-being and Forgiveness
Texte en arabe: اَللّٰهُمَّ إِنَّكَ خَلَقْتَ نَفْسِيْ وَأَنْتَ تَوَفَّاهَا ، لَكَ مَمَاتُهَا وَمَحْيَاهَا ، إِنْ أَحْيَيْتَهَا فَاحْفَظْهَا ، وَإِنْ أَمَتَّهَا فَاغْفِرْ لَهَا ، اَللّٰهُمَّ إِنِّيْ أَسْأَلُكَ الْعَافِيَة.

Traduction en anglais: O Allah, verily You have created my soul and You shall take its life. To You Alone belongs its life and death. If You keep my soul alive then protect it, and if You take it away, then forgive it. O Allah, I ask You to grant me well-being.

Translitération:Allāhumma innaka khalaqta nafsī wa Anta tawaffāhā, laka mamātuhā wa maḥyāhā, in aḥyaytahā fa-ḥfaẓhā, wa in amattahā fa-ghfir lahā, Allāhumma innī as’aluka-l-ʿāfiyah.

Source:ʿAbdullah b. ʿUmar (radiy Allāhū ‘anhumā) narrates that he instructed a man to say [the above] when going to sleep. The man asked him: ‘Did you hear this from ʿUmar?’ He replied: ‘Someone better than ʿUmar; from the Messenger of Allah ﷺ.’ (Aḥmad 5502)

Répétition:1X



16.Forgiveness & Protection
Texte en arabe: بِسْمِ اللّٰهِ وَضَعْتُ جَنْبِيْ ، اَللّٰهُمَّ اغْفِرْ لِيْ ذَنْبِيْ ، وَأَخْسِئْ شَيْطَانِيْ ، وَفُكَّ رِهَانِيْ ، وَاجْعَلْنِيْ فِي النَّدِيِّ الْأَعْلَىٰ.

Traduction en anglais: In the Name of Allah, I lie down. O Allah, forgive my sins, ward off from me my shaytān, free me from my obligations (to others) and enter me into the loftiest assembly (of angels).

Translitération:Bismillāhi waḍaʿtu jambī, Allāhumma-ghfir lī dhambī, wa akhsi’ shayṭānī, wa fukka rihānī, wa-jʿalnī fi-n-Nadiyyi-l-Aʿlā.

Source:Abū al-Azhar al-Anmārī (raḍiy Allāhu ‘anhu) narrates that when the Messenger of Allah ﷺ retired to bed at night, he would say [the above]. (Abū Dāwūd 5054)

Répétition:1X



17.Praise Allah With the Praises of the Entire Creation
Texte en arabe: اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰهِ الَّذِيْ كَفَانِيْ وَآوَانِيْ ، اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰهِ الَّذِيْ أَطْعَمَنِيْ وَسَقَانِيْ ، اَلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰهِ الَّذِيْ مَنَّ عَلَيَّ فَأَفْضَلَ ، اَللّٰهُمَّ إِنِّيْ أَسْأَلُكَ بِعِزَّتِكَ أَنْ تُنَجِّيَنِيْ مِنَ النَّارِ.

Traduction en anglais: All praise is for Allah Who has sufficed me and given me refuge. All praise is for Allah Who has fed me and given me drink. All praise is for Allah Who has been gracious to me and showered favours on me. O Allah, I ask You by Your Glory, save me from the Hell-Fire. (Ḥākim)

Translitération:Al-ḥamdu li-llāhi-lladhī kafānī wa āwānī, al-ḥamdu li-llāhi-lladhī aṭʿamanī wa saqānī, al-ḥamdu li-llāhi-l-ladhī manna ʿalayya fa-afḍal, allāhumma innī as’aluka bi ʿizzatika an tunajjiyanī min-an-nār.

Source:The Messenger of Allah ﷺ said: “Whoever says [the above] when retiring to bed has praised Allah with all the praises of His entire creation.” (Hākim 2001)

Répétition:1X



18.Sleep in the Name of Your Lord
Texte en arabe: اَللّٰهُمَّ بِاسْمِكَ أَمُوْتُ وَأَحْيَا.

Traduction en anglais: O Allah, solely in Your Name I die and I live.

Translitération:Allāhumma bismika amūtu wa aḥyā.

Source:Abū Dhar (raḍiy Allāhu ‘anhu) narrates that whenever the Prophet ﷺ lay on his bed, he used to say: [the above], and when he woke up he would say: ‘All praise is for Allah Who gave us life after having taken it from us and unto Him is the resurrection.’ (Bukhārī 6325)

Répétition:1X



19.Get Forgiven Before Going to Sleep
Texte en arabe: لَا إِلٰهَ إِلَّا اللّٰهُ وَحْدَهُ لَا شَرِيْكَ لَهُ ، لَهُ الْمُلْكُ وَلَهُ الْحَمْدُ ، وَهُوَ عَلَىٰ كُلِّ شَيْءٍ قَدِيْرٌ ، وَلَا حَوْلَ وَلَا قُوَّةَ إِلَّا بِاللّٰهِ ، سُبْحَانَ اللّٰهِ وَالْحَمْدُ لِلّٰهِ وَلَا إِلٰهَ إِلَّا اللّٰهُ وَاللّٰهُ أَكْبَرُ.

Traduction en anglais: There is no god but Allah. He is Alone and He has no partner whatsoever. To Him Alone belong all sovereignty and all praise. He is over all things All-Powerful. There is no power (in averting evil) or strength (in attaining good) except through Allah. Allah is free from imperfection, and all praise is for Allah. There is no god but Allah and Allah is the Greatest.

Translitération:Lā ilāha illā-l-lāhu waḥdahu lā sharīka lah, lahu-l-mulku wa lahu-l-ḥamd, wa Huwa ʿalā kulli shay’in qadīr, wa lā ḥawla wa lā quwwata illā billāh, subḥāna-llāhi wa-l-ḥamdu lillāhi wa lā ilāha illā Allāhu wa-l-Allāhu akbar

Source:The Messenger of Allah ﷺ said: “Whoever says [the above] when retiring to bed, all of his sins will be forgiven, even if they are as abundant as the foam of the sea.” (Nasā’ī)

Répétition:1X



1.Die Upon the Fitrah
Texte en arabe: اَللّٰهُمَّ أَسْلَمْتُ نَفْسِيْ إِلَيْكَ ، وَفَوَّضْتُ أَمْرِيْ إِلَيْكَ ، وَوَجَّهْتُ وَجْهِيْ إِلَيْكَ ، وَأَلْجَاْتُ ظَهْرِيْ إِلَيْكَ ، رَغْبَةً وَرَهْبَةً إِلَيْكَ ، لَا مَلْجَأَ وَلَا مَنْجَا مِنْكَ إِلَّا إِلَيْكَ ، آمَنْتُ بِكِتَابِكَ الَّذِيْ أَنْزَلْتَ وَبِنَبِيِّكَ الَّذِيْ أَرْسَلْتَ.

Traduction en anglais: O Allah, I submit my soul unto You, and I entrust my affair unto You, and I turn my face towards You, and I totally rely on You, in hope and fear of You. Verily there is no refuge or safe haven from You except with You. I believe in Your Book which You have revealed and in Your Prophet whom You have sent.

Translitération:Allāhumma aslamtu nafsī ilayk, wa fawwaḍtu amrī ilayk, wa wajjahtu wajhī ilayk, wa alja’tu ẓahrī ilayk, raghbatan wa rahbatan ilayk, lā malja’a wa lā manjā minka illā ilayk, āmantu bi kitābika-l-ladhī anzalt, wa bi Nabiyyika-lladhī arsalt.

Source:The Messenger of Allah ﷺ said: “Before you go to bed, perform wudhū as you would for prayer, then lie down on your right side and say [the above]. Whoever says this and dies in his sleep, will die upon the ‘fitrah’ (natural monotheism).” (Bukhārī 6313)

In another narration the Messenger of Allah ﷺ said: “Let the aforesaid words be your last utterance (before sleep).” (Bukhārī 247)

Répétition:1X

